I’m passionate about all things data! I love the idea of driving swift and accurate decisions through data. Spend a few hours around me and you’ll hear me overusing my favorite phrase, “quantifiably justifiable” or asking someone to back their hypothesis with data. Letting data speak has become critical in my life – from ensuring intuitive user experiences to bolstering business objectives and conversion goals.
I’m currently delivering value as a UX Developer within a small team of like-minded individuals driving the organization through quantifiable value derived from well-designed applications. My involvement in the design and development of features begins at their conception – working with business analysts and marketing specialists to understand the business needs and ensure user personas are accurately predicted and well catered towards throughout the design process. I leverage tools such as Adobe CC and Axure to develop wireframes and mockups which I then translate into prototypes via HTML, CSS, JavaScript / jQuery along with frameworks such as Flexbox and Bootstrap. I then fully integrate these prototypes within our CMS, Liferay, or pass them along with redlines to front-end developers. My typical day is filled not only with designing and implementing new features, but also assessment through analytics to provide an actionable path of improvement opportunities for currently-deployed features. What makes me valuable isn't the languages I know or the tools I use, but my attention to details that matter. I am continuously learning to develop an elegant solution with which to provide users a coherent, information-rich experience – ensuring a pleasant-to-navigate application serving to bolster conversion rates and retain current user bases.
Previously employed by Luminant, I provided the role of data analyst – leading a reformation in how our team approached big data, providing valuable insight into business operations, developing statistical models to assess mechanical equipment health and predict operational difficulties, and solving our everyday challenges with the aid of VBA, Ruby, and R. Derived findings were then combined with my engineering experience to provide a comprehensible context. I then directly presented this “actionable intelligence” to Luminant’s internal stakeholders or external clients.
